update color-mix() (#33009)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/color_value/color-mix/index.md

{{EmbedLiveSample("mixing_two_colors", "100%", 150)}}

When only one color has a percentage assigned, the total value of both colors is 100%. The above {{htmlelement("li")}} elements are 100%, 75%, 50%, 25%, 0%, and 50% white, respectively. In the last {{htmlelement("li")}}, when neither color was assigned a percentage, both defaulted to 50%.

### Adding transparency

> This example demonstrates using the `ccolor-mix()` function to add transparency to a color by mixing any color with `transparent`.

Author: fixed

```css hidden
ul {
  display: flex;
  list-style-type: none;
  font-size: 150%;
  gap: 10px;
  border: 2px solid;
  padding: 10px;
}

li {
  padding: 10px;
  flex: 1;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  font-family: monospace;
  outline: 1px solid var(--base);
  text-align: center;
}
```

```css
:root {
  --base: red;
}

ul {
  background: repeating-linear-gradient(
    45deg,
    palegoldenrod 0px 2px,
    white 2px 4px
  );
}

li:nth-child(1) {
  background-color: color-mix(in srgb, var(--base) 0%, transparent);
}

li:nth-child(2) {
  background-color: color-mix(in srgb, var(--base) 25%, transparent);
}

li:nth-child(3) {
  background-color: color-mix(in srgb, var(--base) 50%, transparent);
}

li:nth-child(4) {
  background-color: color-mix(in srgb, var(--base) 75%, transparent);
}

li:nth-child(5) {
  background-color: color-mix(in srgb, var(--base) 100%, transparent);
}

li:nth-child(6) {
  background-color: color-mix(in srgb, var(--base), transparent);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("adding transparency", "100%", 150)}}

> In this way, the `color-mix()` function can be used to add transparency to any color, even if the color already has a less than opaque alpha channel value. However, there is no basic `color-mix()` function that can be used to make a semi-transparent color opaque. For this, [use relative colors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors/Relative_colors), with a CSS [color functions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors#functions). Relative colors can be used to alter the value of any color channel, including increasing a color's alpha color to fully opaque.

Reviewer: This is now much better, and I understand what you are trying to say. I did have some small change suggestions to make the text more understandable, and a couple of small fixes:

```suggestion
In this way, the `color-mix()` function can be used to add transparency to any color, even if the color is already non-opaque (with an alpha channel value < 1). However, `color-mix()` can't be used to make a semi-transparent color fully opaque. For this, [use relative colors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors/Relative_colors), with a CSS [color function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors#functions). Relative colors can alter the value of any color channel, including increasing a color's alpha channel to render the color fully opaque.
```

### Using hue interpolation in color-mix()

This example demonstrates the hue interpolation methods available to the `color-mix()` function. When using hue [interpolation](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#interpolation), the resulting hue is between the hue values of the two colors being mixed. The value will be different based on which route is taken around the color wheel.

For more information, see {{cssxref("&lt;hue-interpolation-method&gt;")}}.

```html hidden
<p>longer</p>
<ul>
  <li>100%</li>
  <li>80%</li>
  <li>60%</li>
  <li>40%</li>
  <li>20%</li>
  <li>0%</li>
</ul>
<p>shorter</p>
<ul>
  <li>100%</li>
  <li>80%</li>
  <li>60%</li>
  <li>40%</li>
  <li>20%</li>
  <li>0%</li>
</ul>
<p>increasing</p>
<ul>
  <li>100%</li>
  <li>80%</li>
  <li>60%</li>
  <li>40%</li>
  <li>20%</li>
  <li>0%</li>
</ul>
<p>decreasing</p>
<ul>
  <li>100%</li>
  <li>80%</li>
  <li>60%</li>
  <li>40%</li>
  <li>20%</li>
  <li>0%</li>
</ul>
```

#### CSS

> The `shorter hue` interpolation method takes the shorted route, the `longer hue` interpolation method is taken from the longer route around the color wheel. With `increasing hue`, the route starts with increasing values. With `decreasing hue` the value decreases. We mix two {{cssxref("named-color")}} values to create a series of `lch()` intermediary colors that differ based on which route is taken around the color wheel. The mixed colors include `red`, `blue`, and `yellow` with LCH hue values of approximately 41deg, 301deg, and 100deg, respectively.

Author: updated
